good genetics
if you listen to bodybuilders talk on
the internet for whatever reason because
you're interested in vegan politics or
hear a lot of talk about
good
genetics what does good genetics
really mean does it mean that you look
good with your shirt off
does it mean
that with the right application of
steroids you look good with your shirt
off because how you absorb the steroids
how the type of utilization your body
makes in steroids the results you get
with the steroids that's genetic too
right
what if good genetics has more to do
with whether or not you make yourself
into a [ __ ]
or a drug addict whether or not you
spend the last 20 30
40 years of your life
walking with a cane
taking opiates
coping with chronic pain
brought on ultimately by a combination
of your own
competitive spirit
and
simple vanity so i really want to
connect with you guys
in a way that is very transparent and i
feel like i haven't been able to do that
because i've been going through a long
period of
deciding contemplating what i want to do
with this channel do i want to delete it
do i want to throw it away
when i stopped
being plant-based in 2020 in the
beginning of 2020 i was experiencing
some joint pain
and
some back pain
that was resolved within
a very short amount of time after eating
animal products
in the beginning of 2020 beginning of
last year so that
meat-eating period didn't last very long
so i went back into a plant-based diet
and felt great in the beginning
again
just like i felt felt great for five
years or almost six years doing it it
didn't get bad until october of last
year where my joints
uh in my wrist and my shoulder
went completely
painful it was horrible even to move not
even when lifting weights but just you
know moving around in normal life and so
i decided to give it another shot with
eating meat and so i ate meat and eggs
and animal products again
that we have here locally and within a
very short amount of time
my joint pain started to decrease
rapidly and i had kind of given up going
to the gym and decided to quit the gym
all together but since my joint pain has
drastically reduced and is almost
non-existent at this point i decided to
go back into the gym full time around
one month ago training almost every day
starting slowly etc but it's been
feeling amazing
this is the part where we're all
supposed to pretend that it's some
scientific mystery
as to why
john venus would experience
intense
joint pain why would a man
looking the way he does
at his age
have intense pain
in his wrists
in his elbows
i heard a documentary
about a fire in a meat processing plant
it was notorious locally but i think not
really a famous enough accident to make
national or international news it was in
the united states of america
and as you can imagine both for
insurance reasons and for sort of
criminal investigation purposes because
it was suspected that management had
mismanaged things in such a way that
resulted in unnecessary deaths made a
very careful inspection of all the
corpses
and it seemed that nearly every single
dead body
had multiple plastic vials
of painkillers
for joint pain
drugs like robaxasset
you know
these are people
working on an assembly line that takes
pieces of chicken
and covers them in breading and cooks
them and freezes them so people can have
the convenience of buying a box of
ready-to-eat processed meat it is
basically like a 21st century
sausage factory
people picking things up off of conveyor
belts and putting them down
loading things onto
shelves and racks
just this
moderate exertion
repeated
over enough hours
was causing intense
chronic joint pain
to the point where the entire staff of
this factory
was high on painkillers during their
work day like
morning noon
and night
sooner or later if you haven't already
seen one you will have seen an interview
with a career wrestler
career boxer
anyone
who's been a career athlete especially
if they pushed to keep that career going
as long as possible into their middle
age about chronic joint pain
and how you know there's one stage where
they feel they're surrounded by athletes
all of whom are addicted to steroids
and then there's another phase of their
career where they feel they're
surrounded by athletes
who are addicted to opiates
because of the terrible pain
in their joints their difficulty
sleeping
they take painkillers to make that
possible then they take stimulants to
make getting up and going to the gym
boss pool or you know
painkiller addiction amongst
professional wrestlers exhibition
wrestlers pro athletes of that kind
it's at epidemic levels there's no
mystery
as to why john venus
has chronic joint pain
the mysterious thing
would be imagining that this is a
condition that is caused by a vegan diet
or that could be cured
by eating a non-vegan diet by eating the
combination of meat milk eggs
that he has here
so
vaguely
alluded to i have you know grown as a
person not saying that i've grown into a
better and i'm too good for veganism or
anything like that i'm just different i
have a different perspective and as life
moves on that's what happens it's not
going to have anything to do with vegan
fitness or anything like that although
the similarities will be there it's just
that i'm not going to be vegan
i eat meat
it's easy to talk about nature and it's
easy to talk about our natural limits
but we live our lives
constantly
ignorant
as to what our own true nature might be
and we don't really know our natural
limits
until
we discover them i had a girlfriend once
i'm not going to tell you which
girlfriend i'm thinking of i've had many
i had a girlfriend once who came to one
day and said
that she wanted to go and visit a doctor
because her vagina was sore and she felt
like maybe we had to take a break
from having sex in a while and it was
this same kind of attitude like oh like
this is a mystery
for the doctor
to solve i remember i asked
how many times
did we have sex
yesterday
eight times no i remember the number was
eight you know because the nature of
this whole
anecdote i was like and the day before
that like i did before maybe it was
eight maybe it was nine maybe it was six
and the day before that maybe was eleven
i know it's like look
if you go in to see a doctor
and say hey you know
my vagina is sore and i just have no
idea why
he says oh well how many times have you
been having sex per day and you tell
them the truth you say oh well yesterday
i had sex eight times
the doctor is going to look at you like
you're completely insane and say
uh uh oh
well i think i've found the explanation
for why you have a sore vagina you've
been pushing yourself to your limits
you've been reaching your natural limit
for just basically how much friction you
could endure if you're crawling around
on the floor in your hands and knees and
scraping your knees up on the carpet for
some reason
now
nothing real scientific about it you've
got a natural limit on how much friction
your knees can endure before you start
having physical pain before you start
having
a problem there is no mystery to be
solved in explaining the chronic pain
and fatigue
that john venus complains of
the mystery is explaining how it is that
he's become so deeply committed to his
own vanity
that he wants to put in the work and for
the next 10 years
try to force his body past that natural
limit that already did so much damage to
him in the last 10 years
why it is that he's willing to take this
risk to end up like one of those old men
in those wrestling documentaries and
those boxing documentaries to end up as
one of those old men with a terrible
crippling chronic pain condition
and quite possibly a drug habit to help
manage the symptoms
[Music]
you